[5.4] Document the patch type functionality of the DebugClassLoader (#15802)
symfony/symfony-docs: setup/upgrade_major.rst

In some rare situations, the next major version *may* contain backwards-compatibility
breaks. Make sure you read the ``UPGRADE-X.0.md`` (where X is the new major version)
included in the Symfony repository for any BC break that you need to be aware of.

.. _upgrading-native-return-types:

Upgrading to Symfony 6: Add Native Return Types
-----------------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 5.4

>     The return type checking and fixing features were introduced in Symfony 5.4.

Reviewer: s/return type/return-type

Symfony 6 will come with native PHP return types to (almost all) methods.
It is important to add the native PHP return types to your classes first.
Otherwise, you will get incompatible declaration errors when upgrading to
Symfony 6.0.

When debug mode is enabled (typically in the dev and test environment),
Symfony will trigger deprecations for every incompatible method
declaration. For instance, the ``UserInterface::getRoles()`` method will
have an ``array`` return type in Symfony 6. In order to be compatible, you
must add the same return type to the ``getRoles()`` method while using
Symfony 5.4.

> To help with this, Symfony provides a script that can add these native
> return types automatically for you in the ``symfony/error-handler``
> component. When installed, generate a complete class map using Composer

Author: ```suggestion
To help with this, Symfony provides a script that can add these native
return types automatically for you. Make sure you installed the ``symfony/error-handler``
component. When installed, generate a complete class map using Composer
```

In some rare situations, the next major version *may* contain backwards-compatibility
breaks. Make sure you read the ``UPGRADE-X.0.md`` (where X is the new major version)
included in the Symfony repository for any BC break that you need to be aware of.

.. _upgrading-native-return-types:

Upgrading to Symfony 6: Add Native Return Types
-----------------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 5.4

    The return-type checking and fixing features were introduced in Symfony 5.4.

Symfony 6 will come with native PHP return types to (almost all) methods.
It is important to add the native PHP return types to your classes first.
Otherwise, you will get incompatible declaration errors when upgrading to
Symfony 6.0.

When debug mode is enabled (typically in the dev and test environment),
Symfony will trigger deprecations for every incompatible method

> declaration. For instance, the ``UserInterface::getRoles()`` method will

Reviewer: declarations

return types automatically for you. Make sure you installed the
``symfony/error-handler`` component. When installed, generate a complete
class map using Composer and run the script to iterate over the class map
and fix any incompatible method:

.. code-block:: terminal

    # "-o" is important! This forces Composer to find all classes
    $ composer dump-autoload -o

    # patch all incompatible method declarations
    $ ./vendor/bin/patch-type-declarations

.. tip::

    This feature is not limited to Symfony packages. It will also help you
    add types and prepare for other dependencies in your project.

The behavior of this script can be modified using the
``SYMFONY_PATCH_TYPE_DECLARATIONS`` env var. The value of this env var is
url-encoded (e.g. ``param1=value2&param2=value2``), the following
parameters are available:

``force``
    Enables fixing return types, the value must be one of:

    * ``2`` to add all possible return types (default, recommended for applications);
    * ``1`` to add return types only to tests, final, internal or private methods;
    * ``phpdoc`` to only add ``@return`` docblock annotations to the incompatible

>       methods, or ``#[ReturnTypeWillChange]`` if it's triggered by the PHP engine.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest mentioning the attribute with the FQCN to avoid mistakes. See https://github.com/php/php-src/pull/7454
```suggestion
      methods, or ``#[\ReturnTypeWillChange]`` if it's triggered by the PHP engine.
```

``php``
    The target version of PHP - e.g. ``7.1`` doesn't generate "object"
    types (which were introduced in 7.2). This defaults to the PHP version
    used when running the script.

``deprecations``
    Set to ``0`` to disable deprecations. Otherwise, a deprecation notice
    when a child class misses a return type while the parent declares an
    ``@return`` annotation (defaults to ``1``).

If there are specific files that should be ignored, you can set the
``SYMFONY_PATCH_TYPE_EXCLUDE`` env var to a regex. This regex will be
matched to the full path to the class and each matching path will be
ignored (e.g. ``SYMFONY_PATCH_TYPE_EXCLUDE="/tests\/Fixtures\//"``).
Classes in the ``vendor/`` directory are always ignored.

.. tip::

    The script does not care about code style. Run your code style fixer,
    or `PHP CS Fixer`_ with the ``phpdoc_trim_consecutive_blank_line_separation``

>     and ``no_superfluous_phpdoc_tags`` rules, after patching the types.

Reviewer: there might also be the one that orders `use` statements if you want one more rule :)
